"I'm sorry, I just can't work like this"
Myra dropped her pen on her legal pad and shoved herself slightly back from the table. When she looked up at the room, her face held the pain of pure embarassment. It was week two of concept workshopping, round one of Crazy Eights, and frankly, Myra's concepts were very anemic. She had half of a single single concept while the rest of the room had six or seven.

"Yep, I'm familiar with the drill"
Darren's face held the contempt of the most bored teenager. I've never taught high school, but I felt a certain camaraderie with its teachers as I tried to coax him into excitement over his ideas. It was our all day Zero Based Design workshop for our project, and the first time I had ever run one. It was Darren's 3rd this year. He drew a storyboard instead of concepts. He left halfway through the workshop.

"So wait... I can't remember everything on this list... Can I use my computer?"
Kimberly's Sharpie hovered over her note cards while her eyes bore into me. She remains one of the most decisive, clear thinking people I've met, and we had brought her to a standstill with our "No computers or phones" edict. She shrugged it off and began writing. She finished her stack, looked up at me, and informed me that it was incomplete but would have to do. I laughed uncomfortably, and thanked her for pushing through.

---

UX Designer = facilitator, right? In so much of what I do in my work, I'm the facilitator. It surprises no one that I ran a youth group as a youth (Slightly older than the target audience)--That cheery, indominatable "We'll just work it out!" springs up at a moment's notice when it's time to run a workshop or a research session.

I'm not sure if I'm a good facilitator. I think that I might be for two reasons; I've received glowing feedback from peers and participants about the workshops that I've run, and each time that I run one it feels like I'm learning and growing and improving. But as I learn and grow and improve, I've found a growing disquiet about the social space that operates in these workshops. Regular contact with those who don't take well to the workshop format brings questions about what I'm missing when I run one.

Workshops that go well feel brilliant. Personally, after each one I'm completely spent and thrilled simultaneously. Ideas and insights seem to pour from me, and I'll jabber to whomever listens about what we accomplished. But the thing is, I'm wondering if it feels better than it is. I look back at the ideas that made it through to the final work, and the ones that I'm proudest of don't seem to have their roots in those sessions. It makes me think that perhaps I'm missing the point.